
OLD STRsimulator Versions:
some of those version have buggs etc. however, 
they contain partially other readers 
and or work with lists instead of dictionary 
or have different approaches in "base-replacement" in the mutation function
therefore a slightly changed structure.
Maybe some old versions can be usefull. 

- first version was: "simulator.py"
  -  the "getBedFile"-function here can deal with bed-files from ucsc which has more columns, and creates a bedfile-list instead of the dictionary of the final version
  the difference of list and dictionary has only minimal effect on the runtime. Biggest issue in the runtime is the fasta-reader/written, and the lacking threads.
      -     #bin	chrom	chromStart	chromEnd	name	period	copyNum	consensusSize	perMatch	perIndel	score	A	C	G	T	entropy	sequence
      -     585	chr1	10000	10468	trf	6	77.2	6	95	3	789	33	51	0	15	1.43	TAACCC
  -  first versions main function might have a lot of bugs. And is not very functional implemented- all one big function.
  -  first version have only File and STR-expansion parameter. (Mutation, Indel, Diploid is still missing)
  
- second version is missing in this folder: was a class implementation, but caused to many errors, and was to time consuming at that time to fix it.
  Class-approach, could be a feature in next versions. 
  
- third version was: "simulator_hd.py"
  -  the "getBedFile"-function takes similar to "STRsimulator_v7.py" a bedfile with 5 columns. Here however the input gets stored in a list instead of dictionary.  
  -  had the parameters for STR-expansion, and mutation. 
  -  parameters: Haploid/Diploid, Homozygous, and Indel-factor were still missing
  -  mutation worked be rebuilding region-string.
  -  was still a large main function
  
- fourth version was: "simulator_homozygous.py"  #frist version that should be relatively bug-free
  -  two different bedfile-reader available - one in comment-form. 
  -  both bedfile-reader work with list-approach.
  -  parameters: Haploid/Diploid, Homozygous, and Indel-factor now implemented
  -  two different mutation function available, one in comment-form. 
      - One rebuilds the region-string. 
      - The other one works with substring mutation.
  -  still one big main-function. But mutation and find-start, are now own functions.
  -  this simulator has a timing function
  
- fifth version was: "simulator_homozygous2.py"
  -  first version that works with dictionaries instead of lists, to call bedfile-content.
  -  has therefore a different structure in the main-function. 
  -  apart from that similar to version four
  
- sixth version was dropped, due to certain issues.

- v7 is the current version.

  
  
 
 
 
